google ads is one of the most tried and
true channels for b2b marketers but with
cost increasing year over year and
google moving more and more towards
automation b2b marketers are finding
their pipe to spend and overall roi
decreasing from this channel i'm sylvia
perez and in today's video i want to
talk about four common mistakes that i
see b2b marketers make with google ads
to help you increase your pipe to spend
and overall roi from this channel let's
get into it and by the way if you like
content around b2b advertising be sure
to subscribe to the channel and click on
that bell icon to be notified of future
videos the first mistake is not tracking
based on offline conversions that are
tied to your crm
most b2b marketers are just tracking
conversions based on the pixel now it's
important to note that there's two ways
you can track conversions within your ad
account and this isn't just google ad
specific this applies to other channels
as well such as facebook or microsoft a
lot of these different ad channels
support both types of tracking so you
have client side tracking and you have
server side tracking client-side
tracking is where you use the pixel
that's available within your google ad
account in order to measure conversions
and server side tracking is where you
track conversions based on activity that
happens within your crm
using a click id and uploading those
offline conversions back into google on
a recurring basis now the downside with
client-side tracking and tracking based
on the pixel is the pixel is really
inaccurate at measuring conversions the
pixel will over count the pixel will
under report the pixel is biased to
google the pixel does not factor in
things such as viewability google can
literally show your ad for a fraction of
a second and then try to associate
credit to that if you're tracking view
through conversions it's just really
inaccurate and if you are making big
spending decisions and you have a lot of
budget on the line the worst thing you
can do is make decisions on poor quality
data and as google moves more and more
towards automation you need to feed
google's algorithms high quality data so
that way they can prioritize what
conversion actions mean the most for
your business so tracking conversions
that are not associated to your crm
activity is the first biggest mistake
that i see b2b marketers make now there
are multiple ways where you can track
offline conversions and import that
activity into your google ad account if
you have hubspot hubspot makes this
really easy they integrate with google
ads and you can very easily import your
crm events into google ads in real time
the other one is using google ads
salesforce integration you can connect
google ads to your salesforce instance
and be able to import your crm events
into google ads so that you can measure
based on actually real leads or real
mqls or real sqls that are associated to
a click id and a lead or contact record
and then finally zapier also allows you
to upload offline conversions and
there's many different ways you can do
it so you have different tools available
to allow you to make this possible and
if you want a whole video on just how to
set up server-side tracking in google
ads let me know in the comments down
below as that can be its own full-blown
tutorial mistake number two is not
checking your search terms report
frequently enough the search terms
report in my opinion is one of the most
valuable reports in google ads the
search terms report is located in the
keyword section and this is going to
show you what did people actually search
when they clicked on your ad on google
the search terms report is amazing at
really doing a quality check i think of
google ads into two pieces you have the
traffic piece and then you have the
conversion piece if you notice you're
not getting a lot of conversions from
your google ad campaigns the search
terms report should be one of the first
places you check to make sure that
you're driving high quality traffic by
looking at the search terms report you
can do a quality check and essentially
understand and see
are you getting the right people who are
searching clicking through on your ads
so for example if you are a software
company in let's say you're promoting
email marketing automation
and you're trying to bid on the keyword
email marketing software
and you look at your search terms report
and you see people that are clicking on
your ads are searching banana slippers
that's never gonna convert into a demo
or a trial for your email marketing
software right so you want to make sure
your search terms report is as close to
perfect as possible i cannot tell you
how many google ads accounts i have
audited for clients that have agencies
and they look at their search terms
report and it is a nightmare they think
they're getting high quality traffic to
their website they're paying expensive
clicks and they look at their search
terms report and they realize based on
their match types or their negative
keywords it could be a multiple of
things that they're not getting good
quality traffic so check your search
terms report frequently to really make
sure you're driving the right visitors
to your website so that way you check
off the traffic piece and now it's up to
your landing page to really convert that
user just think about it as like peanut
butter and jelly peanut butter is the
traffic and the conversion piece is your
landing page which is the jelly that's
like a simple way to think about it you
can also schedule the search terms
report automatically to go out to your
email every single week it's a good best
practice especially if it's a new google
ads account and you're using much
broader match types such as phrase or
broad match it's a good best practice
just check your search from the report
frequently as you do discover searches
that are not
high quality searches you can add those
in as negative keywords you can also
find additional search terms that are
converting really well for you that you
can add in as positive keywords to
expand your campaigns further so that
search terms report is going to give you
so much utility and that's unfortunately
one of the biggest mistakes i see b2b
marketers make is they're not checking
it frequently enough
the third most common mistake that i see
b2b marketers make with their google ad
campaigns is not optimizing their
landing pages as i just talked about
it's peanut butter and it's jelly if
you're driving good traffic you got the
peanut butter but you still need the
jelly and i'm sure i'm going to start
some comments down below on if you like
peanut butter and jelly but you get the
point your landing page is 50 of your
success and if you're not optimizing it
on an ongoing basis then you're really
missing out on half the battle so you
really want to make sure you're paying
attention to your landing pages outside
of just making your landing pages more
effective in terms of conversion rates
your landing pages are equally important
when it comes to your quality score one
of the elements that calculates your
quality score is called your landing
page experience and if you have a poor
landing page experience your landing
page takes forever to load you don't
have a secure domain
you're not following best practices with
your landing page that is all going to
hurt your quality score in addition to
the user's experience and you're not
going to get as many conversions so
really think through your landing pages
follow landing page best practices if
you want a whole other video on how to
create high converting landing pages and
how to audit your landing pages drop a
comment down below and let me know but
you really want to be mindful of your
landing pages as you could be driving
the best quality traffic in the world
your search terms report is on point but
if you're not getting conversions it's
because your landing page is not
communicating effectively the value you
bring and converting those users
so really pay attention to your landing
pages a tool that is free that you can
get started with tomorrow to start
implementing a b test on your landing
pages is called google optimize and it's
one of my go-to resources and get in a
best practice of just running one google
optimize experiment on your landing page
ideally
per month if you don't have enough
traffic than once per quarter and get in
that habit of converting and testing and
optimizing your landing pages just a
three to five percent increase in your
landing page conversion rates can have
massive downstream effects in terms of
improving that pipe to spend and your
overall roi from your google search ad
campaigns
the fourth and final mistake that b2b
marketers are making is they're not
leveraging audiences with their google
search campaigns
google allows you to layer audiences on
top of your search campaign you can do
that directly as a targeted audience or
indirectly as an observation audience
now if you're targeting audiences
directly what that means is you're only
going to have google show your ads when
they search your keyword
and they happen to be within that
specific audience that you're layering
on top exclusively observation on the
other hand is a little bit more indirect
and it is a best practice that a lot of
b2b marketers are not taking advantage
of of just layering in audiences on top
of your search campaigns whether they
are detailed demographics affinity in
market
any data that you've uploaded and any
combined segments layering in those
audiences it doesn't cost you anything
and you can see are certain audiences
driving good performance for your search
campaigns and if they are you can bid
adjust accordingly and also it'll open
up some more advanced strategies as well
where you can do things like using pure
broad match and targeting a specific
audience which what i like to call broad
discovery and be able to scale your
campaigns further but this all comes
from leveraging audience capabilities on
top of your search campaigns this is
also going to be more and more important
as google starts to get a little bit
more and more broad and leans on
you know automation to take the reins so
by layering in audiences it can give you
a little bit more control and also put
google and check on you know the certain
segments that you want to prioritize
based on your actual conversion data
so with that being said some other
common mistakes in terms of audiences
and not taking advantage of this is you
can use audiences and again target them
exclusively and do
rlsa campaigns so remarketing list for
search ad campaigns and you can target
people for example that have been to
your website so google is getting more
and more expensive and paying 50 60 70
dollars for a first touch is becoming
less and less profitable so very easy
way for you to get in front of the you
know those
high value keywords but not necessarily
pay premium costs for those first
touches is to layer uh to create
campaigns that are targeting people that
have been to your website for an example
so you're only going to pay that 60 or
70 premium
cost per click if they've actually been
to your website right so ideally they
have some no like and trust factor with
you and you can do rlsa campaigns that's
just one example of leveraging audiences
on top of your search campaigns another
one i alluded to was broad discovery you
can use purebroad match and and audience
segments that you know have been
converting for you whether that's from
your google ads data if you've already
been layering in audiences
observationally or using your google
analytics and pulling from the audience
section and seeing in market or affinity
audiences that have converted into goal
completions or checking out the
audience insights in the audience
manager within google ads if you have
certain audiences created you can use
all this information to power your
search campaigns and create different
strategies that are not just tied to
keywords but also audiences which really
is the direction and the future of
google ads again as things become more
and more automated now with that being
said equally important as who you're
targeting is who you are excluding
so many google advertisers unfortunately
do not take advantage of exclusion
audiences at the bare minimum the
exclusion audiences you should be
considering is for example
excluding any
people that have completed the action
you wanted them to take so if you're
trying to drive demo requests and
they're getting sent to a thank you page
after
make sure you create an audience of
people that landed on your your thank
you page and exclude that from your
campaigns right let's not waste money on
those individuals
same goes with any closed one contacts
if you can upload a customer list that's
large enough
into google ads you can exclude that
from your campaigns and you can exclude
any contacts that have actually
closed into revenue so it could be the
primary contacts or the associated
contacts of the opportunities that have
actually converted into close one
revenue and you can exclude that from
your campaigns so really making sure
that you're leveraging audiences whether
that's to target them exclusively or to
exclude them or at the very minimum to
observe them and let those insights
allow you to brainstorm potential use
cases or at the very minimum using bid
adjustments so that way you can tell
google how you want them to prioritize
bidding in the auction
hope this video was valuable be sure to
check out these two videos here give
this video a thumbs up and subscribe for
future uploads until the next video take
care